Hey, guys, Brad Merrill here, thank you so much for joining me.
Before we get started, I just want to take a quick second to introduce myself.
First and foremost, I am an entrepreneur.
I build businesses.
I've been building things on the Web for over a decade now.
And one of those things was a large tech blog that served well over half a million readers and paid
my bills with it.
I built relationships with a number of influential entrepreneurs and innovators, appeared regularly
on Techmeme and earned links from high profile sites and publications such as The Wall Street Journal,
Krunch Base, Wikipedia and many others.
What I hope to give you in this course is an all inclusive and up to date guide detailing what I've
learned over the years about what it takes to build a successful blog.
Thousands of students have already used this course to start blogging, and I've heard a ton of great
feedback, including from people who have left prestigious jobs at companies like Google to pursue their
blogging dreams full time.
As of this recording, this is the highest rated blogging course on you to me, and you are taking the
latest and greatest version of the course, updated and expanded to cover things in more depth using
all the student feedback and suggestions that I've gotten over the last couple of years.
So what specifically are you going to learn from this course?
Well, here are some of the things we'll cover.
We'll start with the absolute basics and focus on building a solid foundation for success.
We'll talk about the mindset of a successful blogger, everything from motivation to discipline to confidence.
We'll take an introductory look at the importance of good content and you'll learn how to find your
perfect niche and start brainstorming ideas for the name of your blog.
After that will dive into the technology you'll need to build your site domains, hosting WordPress
themes, plug ins, security backups.
As far as the technical stuff goes, even if you're an absolute beginner, I've got you covered.
Then we'll get into what's really important, which is your content itself, we'll talk about some really
effective ways to come up with new ideas for your blog, including some of my favorite tools and resources
that I use for inspiration.
After that, I'll give you some quick, actionable tips to improve your writing and make sure that everything
you publish on your blog is top notch.
Then we'll talk about the various types of content you can create for your blog.
And I'll actually give you more than a dozen specific content ideas that you can steal and apply to
your topic.
We'll also look at some different content formats that you can experiment with, like podcasting, video,
infographics, and then you'll learn how to create what seems like an infinite stream of fresh content
simply by repurposing what you've already created.
Once you're comfortable with content creation, you need to know how to reach an audience.
We'll take an in-depth look at SEO or search engine optimization, and then you'll learn a number of
proven strategies to proactively get your content in front of people.
Toward the end of the course, we'll talk about building an email list, which, even in the age of
social media, is still the most effective way to generate traffic and revenue on demand.
So we'll talk about the importance of having an email list, how to get people to sign up and what to
actually send people once they're on your list.
Finally, we'll talk about how to turn your blog into a revenue generating asset, a blog is not a business
on its own.
You have to implement some kind of revenue model on top of it, like selling a product, offering services,
selling advertising will go into detail on all the different options you have.
We're going to go deep with this course.
By the end of it, you should be well on your way to building a successful blog with an audience and
revenue.
Now, before I go any further, just to be clear, I don't want anyone to get the idea that building
a blog or building a business is easy.
Like you just take this course and at the end you're suddenly a successful blogger.
Obviously, it doesn't work like that.
It takes time and it takes work.
I tried to design this course as a complete blueprint with all the information you'll need, but it's
up to you to take action and put in the work.
My success comes from many, many long hours and plenty of failure and trial and error along the way.
I'm hoping to give you a little bit of an edge with this course, but building a business of any kind
takes work.
And I want to make sure you understand that from the start.
So why would you want to do this, what exactly did you get out of building a blog?
Well, there are several common motivations.
The first is to build a business.
A blog can be the center of a low overhead location, independent, lucrative business.
There's never been a better time to do this.
We are living in the digital age, my friends, and that means it's cheaper and more feasible than ever
for you or anyone to start a business.
If you're willing to put in the work, you can absolutely do it.
You just have to make it happen.
The second motivation is to grow an existing business content marketing.
Have you heard that term?
It's one of the best ways to drive your business forward.
And a blog is a tried and true format.
Many of the world's biggest companies and brands are now using digital content to market their products
and services.
So you'll be in great company if you do the same.
You can also use a blog to showcase your expertise if you want to position yourself as a thought leader
or an expert, blogging is an excellent way to do it.
I know people who've used their blogs as leverage to land jobs and others who have used them to launch
careers in public speaking.
And if you have aspirations to maybe publish a book one day, a blog is a great place to start.
Another motivation is building relationships.
Blogging can help you become an active member of your community and build relationships with people
you want to reach.
For me personally, blogging has helped me meet so many new friends and connections in the tech and
business world.
It's amazing how many people you can meet organically just by becoming an active voice in the community.
And finally, if you're passionate about your topic, you may find that writing about it is just a lot
of fun for its own sake, even if you don't consider yourself a great writer.
The process of researching and talking to people and sharing ideas is incredibly fulfilling.
Now, how much does it cost to start a blog?
Well, as we'll see, the initial investment can be as low as nothing or as high as thousands, depending
on your budget and your ambitions.
Most new bloggers can get a great website up and running for well under a hundred U.S. dollars.
We'll cover all the various costs of setting up a blog as well as their free alternatives later in the
course.